feat(card): initial design guidance (#8)
vmware-clarity/clarity-guidance: 1005-card-design-guidance.md

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-15
updated: 2024-10-22
---

# Card Design Guidance

> [Cards](https://clarity.design/documentation/card) are containers around a related grouping of content and actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Cards](https://clarity.design/documentation/card) are containers that group related content and actions together, providing a cohesive way to present information in a visually appealing format.```

## Guidance

### Card Usage

> - **Must** use seperate cards for distinct topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use separate cards for distinct topics. This helps to clearly differentiate content and actions, improving organization and enhancing user comprehension.
```

> - **Must** use a card to present high-level information and guide the user toward related actions and details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use a card to present high-level information and guide users toward related actions and details. This facilitates quick understanding and encourages user engagement with the content.
```

> - **Must** use clickable cards, if you want to use a card to initiate an action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use clickable cards when a card is intended to initiate an action. This clearly indicates to users that the card is interactive and provides a pathway to further engagement.
```

> - Content like text, images, dropdown menus, media blocks, lists and list groups can be used inside cards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams may include content such as text, images, dropdown menus, media blocks, lists, and list groups inside cards. This flexibility allows for a rich presentation of information and actions within a single, cohesive space.
```

### Card Anatomy

> - **Must** left-align 'action button(s)' in the card footer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** left-align action buttons in the card footer. This alignment maintains a consistent visual structure and enhances usability by making actions easy to find and access.
```

> - **Should** use dividers in cards to separate regions in the card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should** use dividers in cards to separate different regions. This helps organize content visually, improving readability and allowing users to quickly identify distinct sections within the card.
```

> - **Should** use 'flat buttons' on cards to keep their prominence in perspective with other information on the card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should** use flat buttons on cards to maintain their prominence relative to other information. This design choice helps ensure that the buttons are easily identifiable without overwhelming the card's content.
```

> - **May** use a primary action and a single additional (secondary) action (if required) in the card footer, left-aligned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **may** include a primary action and a single additional (secondary) action in the card footer, both left-aligned. This layout helps to prioritize the main action while still offering users an alternative option if needed.
```

> - **May** use a dropdown menu for more than two actions in the card footer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **may** use a dropdown menu for more than two actions in the card footer. This approach keeps the interface clean and organized, allowing users to access multiple actions without cluttering the card.
```

### Card Placement

> - **Must** group cards by theme or element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** group cards by theme or element. This organization helps users understand the relationships between different pieces of information and actions, enhancing the overall user experience.
```

> - **Must not** nest a card within another card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** nest a card within another card. This practice can lead to confusion and clutter, making it difficult for users to navigate and understand the content hierarchy.
```

> - **Should** use a grid to place cards in fixed rows and columns, which makes it easy to quickly scan content in this layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should** use a grid to place cards in fixed rows and columns. This layout facilitates easy scanning of content, improving organization and enhancing user navigation through the information.
```

> - **Should not** have too much content, overload the card with too many actions, or place links within the content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should not** overload a card with excessive content, too many actions, or links within the content. Keeping cards concise ensures clarity and enhances usability.
```
